David Adamovicz
MEEM 3901
Professor James De Clerck
Fall 2017
As a transfer student to Michigan Technological University I was very excited to take another MEP
course to learn more concepts and different programs. MEP 3 covered lots of material and many
different concepts. For the two assignments I chose a group one and one I did individually. I chose the
individual one to be Modeling Considerations and stress recovery because this was the single
assignment I spent the most time on this semester and I felt I understood Finite Element Analysis much
better after completing it. Based on the feedback given on my assignment I redid my calculations on the
factor of safety and added a figure of the reaction forces. Those were the only two things that were
wrong, so I was glad I performed the mesh analysis correctly. This was the hardest assignment in MEP 3.
The first several hours working on the assignment were in vain because I could not figure out why my
Linear Mesh did not work. Both professors spent time looking over it before suggesting I restart. Once I
began the assignment again it was relatively straightforward but still required a lot of time and focus.
The second assignment I chose Final Summary of Energy and MBD Models. I chose this group
assignment because our team did well, we decided to use my model as one of the two final options, and
this assignment basically reflects everything that was learned in the first half of the semester.. This
AMESim models worked correctly and met all of the requirements we had, however we did not include
plots of the Duty Cycle which was very simple to fix. This assignment was significant because it required
knowledge of AMESim and how to create a model, understanding of a P.I.D. controller, and the ability to
create a simulation in Motion View to simulate the Duty Cycle.
MEP 3 covers many topics that were previously introduced from other courses. The courses that helped
me the most with MEP 3 were Mechanics of Materials, MEP 1, MEP 2, and Mechanical System Design
Analysis. Mechanics of Materials was helpful when we performed stress analyses on our horizontal
mover. MEP 1 and MEP 2 both used HyperWorks to perform an FEA Analysis on a part so I was familiar
with FEA which was very helpful. MEP 2 introduced the P.I.D. controller so I knew the concepts of the
different gain values and the time constant. Mechanical System Design Analysis was helpful towards the
end of the semester when we discussed failure theories and fatigue. MSDA went into more detail
regarding these subjects than MEP 3 so it was very helpful to take them concurrently.
Throughout each of the MEP courses I have gained confidence as an engineer because I have realized
that I am capable of performing the tasks required in Industry. MEP 2 and MEP 3 both had class
structures focused around a project modeled similar to industry. Taking MEP 3 and seeing how similar
the structure was to the real world helped me gain confidence in my abilities and my future. Each of the
MEP courses has helped me learn more regarding programs, processes, writing, working with a group,
and many other things. The group structure of MEP 3 has helped my communication skills and I have
learned how to work in a group to improve efficiency and the group dynamics. Recognizing my strengths
and weaknesses has also been helpful when working with others. Throughout the MEP courses I have
become more knowledgeable and learned to apply what I learn in other classes to real world situations
that are presented in the MEP courses. I have grown a lot since MEP 1 and am excited for what MEP 4
will bring.

3D Modeling and Considerations
David Adamovicz
MEP 3
11/16/2017

1

